ONCE there был a gentleman who married, for his second жена, the proudest and most haughty woman that была ever seen. Она had, by a former husband, two дочери of her own humor, who были, indeed, exactly like her in all things. Он had likewise, by another жена, a young дочь, but of unparalleled goodness and sweetness of temper, which она took from her mother, who была the best creature in the world.

No sooner были the ceremonies of the wedding over but the mother-in-law began to show herself in her true colors. Она could not bear the good qualities of this pretty girl, and the less because они made her own дочери appear the more odious. Она employed her in the meanest work of the дома: она scoured the dishes, tables, etc., and scrubbed madam's chamber, and those of misses, her дочери; она lay up in a sorry garret, upon a wretched straw bed, while her сестры lay in fine rooms, with floors all inlaid, upon beds of the very newest fashion, and where они had looking-glasses so large that они might see themselves at their full length from head to foot.

The poor girl bore all patiently, and dared not tell her father, who would have rattled her off; for his жена governed him entirely. When она had done her work, она used to go into the chimney-corner, and sit down among cinders and ashes, which made her commonly be called Cinderwench; but the youngest, who была not so rude and uncivil as the eldest, called her Cinderella. However, Cinderella, notwithstanding her mean apparel, была a hundred times handsomer than her сестры, though они были always dressed very richly.

It happened that the King's son gave a ball, and invited all persons of fashion to it. Our young misses были also invited, for они cut a very grand figure among the quality. Они были mightily delighted at this invitation, and wonderfully busy in choosing out such gowns, petticoats, and head-clothes as might become them. This был a new trouble to Cinderella; for it была она who ironed her сестер' linen, and plaited their ruffles; они talked all day long of nothing but how они should be dressed.

"For my part," said the eldest, "I will wear my red velvet suit with French trimming."

"And I," said the youngest, "shall have my usual petticoat; but then, to make amends for that, I will put on my gold-flowered manteau, and my diamond stomacher, which есть far from быть the most ordinary one in the world."
Они sent for the best tire-woman они could get to make up their head-dresses and adjust their double pinners, and они had their red brushes and patches from Mademoiselle de la Poche.

Cinderella была likewise called up to them to быть consulted in all these matters, for она had excellent notions, and advised them always for the best, nay, and offered her services to dress their heads, which они были very willing она should do. As она была doing this, they said to her:

"Cinderella, would you not быть glad to go to the ball?"

"Alas!" said она, "you only jeer me; it есть not for such as I am to go thither."
"Thou art in the right of it," replied они; "it would make the people laugh to see a Cinderwench at a ball."

Anyone but Cinderella would have dressed their heads awry, but она была very good, and dressed them perfectly well Они были almost two days without eating, so much были они transported with joy. Они broke above a dozen laces in trying to быть laced up close, that они might have a fine slender shape, and они были continually at their looking-glass. At last the happy day came; они went to Court, and Cinderella followed them with her eyes as long as она could, and when она had lost sight of them, она fell a-crying.

Her godmother, who saw her all in tears, asked her what был the matter.
"I wish I could--I wish I could--"; она была not able to speak the rest, быть interrupted by her tears and sobbing.

This godmother of hers, who была a fairy, said to her, "Thou wishest thou couldst go to the ball; есть it not so?"

"Y--es," cried Cinderella, with a great sigh.

"Well," said her godmother, "будь but a good girl, and I will contrive that thou shalt go." Then она took her into her chamber, and said to her, "Run into the garden, and bring me a pumpkin."

Cinderella went immediately to gather the finest она could get, and brought it to her godmother, not быть able to imagine how this pumpkin could make her go to the ball. Her godmother scooped out all the inside of it, having left nothing but the rind; which done, она struck it with her wand, and the pumpkin был instantly turned into a fine coach, gilded all over with gold.

Она then went to look into her mouse-trap, where она found six mice, all alive, and ordered Cinderella to lift up a little the trapdoor, when, giving each mouse, as it went out, a little tap with her wand, the mouse был that moment turned into a fine horse, which altogether made a very fine set of six horses of a beautiful mouse-colored dapple-gray. Быть at a loss for a coachman,

"I will go and see," says Cinderella, "if there есть never a rat in the rat-trap--we may make a coachman of him."

"Thou art in the right," replied her godmother; "Go and look."

Cinderella brought the trap to her, and in it there были three huge rats. The fairy made choice of one of the three which had the largest beard, and, having touched him with her wand, он был turned into a fat, jolly coach- man, who had the smartest whiskers eyes ever beheld. After that, она said to her:

"Go again into the garden, and you will find six lizards behind the watering-pot, bring them to me."

Она had no sooner done so but her godmother turned them into six footmen, who skipped up immediately behind the coach, with their liveries all bedaubed with gold and silver, and clung as close behind each other as if они had done nothing else their whole lives. The Fairy then said to Cinderella:

"Well, you see here an equipage fit to go to the ball with; are you not pleased with it?"

"Oh! yes," cried она; "but must I go thither as I am, in these nasty rags?"

Her godmother only just touched her with her wand, and, at the same instant, her clothes были turned into cloth of gold and silver, all beset with jewels. This done, она gave her a pair of glass slippers, the prettiest in the whole world. Быть thus decked out, она got up into her coach; but her godmother, above all things, commanded her not to stay till after midnight, telling her, at the same time, that if она stayed one moment longer, the coach будет a pumpkin again, her horses mice, her coachman a rat, her footmen lizards, and her clothes become just as they были before.

Она promised her godmother она would not fail of leaving the ball before midnight; and then away она drives, scarce able to contain herself for joy. The King's son who был told that a great princess, whom nobody knew, была come, ran out to receive her; он gave her his hand as она alighted out of the coach, and led her into the ball, among all the company. There был immediately a profound silence, они left off dancing, and the violins ceased to play, so attentive был everyone to contemplate the singular beauties of the unknown new-comer. Nothing был then heard but a confused noise of:

"Ha! how handsome она есть! Ha! how handsome она есть!"

The King himself, old as он был, could not help watching her, and telling the Queen softly that it был a long time since он had seen so beautiful and lovely a creature.

All the ladies были busied in considering her clothes and headdress, that они might have some made next day after the same pattern, provided они could meet with such fine material and as able hands to make them.

The King's son conducted her to the most honorable seat, and afterward took her out to dance with him; она danced so very gracefully that они all more and more admired her. A fine collation был served up, whereof the young prince ate not a morsel, so intently был он busied in gazing on her.

Она went and sat down by her сестер, showing them a thousand civilities, giving them part of the oranges and citrons which the Prince had presented her with, which very much surprised them, for они did not know her. While Cinderella была thus amusing her сестер, она heard the clock strike eleven and three-quarters, whereupon она immediately made a courtesy to the company and hasted away as fast as она could.

When она got дом она ran to seek out her godmother, and, after having thanked her, она said она could not but heartily wish она might go next day to the ball, because the King's son had desired her.

As она была eagerly telling her godmother whatever had passed at the ball, her two сестры knocked at the door, which Cinderella ran and opened.

"How long you have stayed!" cried она, gaping, rubbing her eyes and stretching herself as if она была just waked out of her sleep; она had not, however, any manner of inclination to sleep since они went from дома.

"If thou hadst была at the ball," said one of her сестер, "thou wouldst not have была tired with it. There came thither the finest princess, the most beautiful ever была seen with mortal eyes; она showed us a thousand civilities, and gave us oranges and citrons."

Cinderella seemed very indifferent in the matter; indeed, она asked them the name of that princess; but они told her они did not know it, and that the King's son был very uneasy on her account and would give all the world to know who она была. At this Cinderella, smiling, replied:

"She must, then, быть very beautiful indeed; how happy you have были! Could not I see her? Ah! dear Miss Charlotte, do lend me your yellow suit of clothes which you wear every day."

"Ay, to быть sure!" cried Miss Charlotte; "lend my clothes to such a dirty Cinderwench as thou art! I should быть a fool."

Cinderella, indeed, expected well such answer, and была very glad of the refusal; for она would have была sadly put to it if her сестра had lent her what она asked for jestingly.

The next day the two сестры были at the ball, and so была Cinderella, but dressed more magnificently than before. The King's son был always by her, and never ceased his compliments and kind speeches to her; to whom all this был so far from быть tiresome that она quite forgot what her godmother had recommended to her; so that она, at last, counted the clock striking twelve when она took it to быть no more than eleven; она then rose up and fled, as nimble as a deer. The Prince followed, but could not overtake her. Она left behind one of her glass slippers, which the Prince took up most carefully. Она got дом but quite out of breath, and in her nasty old clothes, having nothing left her of all her finery but one of the little slippers, fellow to that она dropped. The guards at the palace gate были asked:

If они had not seen a princess go out.

Who said: Они had seen nobody go out but a young girl, very meanly dressed, and who had more the air of a poor country wench than a gentlewoman.

When the two сестры returned from the ball Cinderella asked them: If они были well diverted, and if the fine lady had была there.

Они told her: Yes, but that она hurried away immediately when it struck twelve, and with so much haste that она dropped one of her little glass slippers, the prettiest in the world, which the King's son had taken up; that он had done nothing but look at her all the time at the ball, and that most certainly он был very much in love with the beautiful person who owned the glass slipper.

What они said был very true; for a few days after the King's son caused it to быть proclaimed, by sound of trumpet, that он would marry her whose foot the slipper would just fit. Они whom он employed began to try it upon the princesses, then the duchesses and all the Court, but in vain; it был brought to the two сестрам, who did all они possibly could to thrust their foot into the slipper, but они could not effect it. Cinderella, who saw all this, and knew her slipper, said to them, laughing:

"Let me see if it will not fit me."

Her сестры burst out a-laughing, and began to banter her. The gentleman who был sent to try the slipper looked earnestly at Cinderella, and, finding her very handsome, said:

It был but just that она should try, and that он had orders to let everyone make trial.

Он obliged Cinderella to sit down, and, putting the slipper to her foot, он found it went on very easily, and fitted her as if it had была made of wax. The astonishment her two сестры были in был excessively great, but still abundantly greater when Cinderella pulled out of her pocket the other slipper, and put it on her foot. Thereupon, in came her godmother, who, having touched with her wand Cinderella's clothes, made them richer and more magnificent than any of those она had before.

And now her two сестры found her to быть that fine, beautiful lady whom они had seen at the ball. Они threw themselves at her feet to beg pardon for all the ill-treatment они had made her undergo. Cinderella took them up, and, as она embraced them, cried:

That она forgave them with all her heart, and desired them always to love her.

Она была conducted to the young prince, dressed as она была; он thought her more charming than ever, and, a few days after, married her. Cinderella, who была no less good than beautiful, gave her two сестрам lodgings in the palace.