Mr and Mrs Dursley, of номера 4, Privet Drive, были proud to сказать, что они были очень нормальными, thank you very much. Они были the last люди you’d expect to быть involved в anything strange or mysterious, because они just не hold with such nonsense.

Mr Dursley был the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made drills. Он был a big, beefy человек with hardly any neck, although он did have a очень large moustache. Mrs Dursley была thin and blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came в очень useful as она spent so much of своего time craning over garden fences, spying on the neighbours. The Dursleys had a маленького son called Dudley and в их opinion there was no finer boy anywhere.

The Dursleys had everything they wanted, но они also had a secret, and их greatest fear был that somebody would discover это. Они не think они could bear это if anyone found out about the Potters. Mrs Potter была Mrs Dursley’s sister, но они не had met для several years; in fact, Mrs Dursley pretended она не had a sister, because her sister and her good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as это было possible to быть. The Dursleys shuddered to think что the neighbours would сказать if the Potters arrived in the street. The Dursleys knew что the Potters had a маленького son, too, но они не had never even seen him. Этот boy был another good reason для keeping the Potters away; они не want Dudley mixing with a child like что.

When Mr and Mrs Dursley woke up on the dull, grey Tuesday our story starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to suggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the country. Mr Dursley hummed as он picked out his most boring tie для work and Mrs Dursley gossiped away happily as она wrestled a screaming Dudley into his high chair.

None of их noticed a large tawny owl flutter past the window.

At half past eight, Mr Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked Mrs Dursley on the cheek and tried to kiss Dudley goodbye но missed, because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing his cereal at the walls. ‘Little tyke,’ chortled Mr Dursley as он left the дом. Он got into his car and backed out of номера 4’s drive.

It было on the corner of the street что он noticed the first sign of something peculiar – a cat reading a map. Для a second, Mr Dursley не realise что он had seen – then он jerked his head around to look again. There была a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet Drive, но there wasn’t a map in sight. Что could он have been thinking of? Это must have been a trick of the light. Mr Dursley blinked and stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr Dursley drove around the corner and up the road, он watched the cat в his mirror. It было now reading the sign что said Privet Drive – не, looking at the sign; cats couldn’t read maps or signs. Mr Dursley gave himself a маленького shake and put the cat out of his mind. As он drove towards town он thought of nothing except a large order of drills он был hoping to get that day.