Mr and Mrs Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. They were the last people you’d expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious, because they just didn’t hold with such nonsense.

Mr Dursley был the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made drills. Он был a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although он did have a very large moustache. Mrs Dursley была thin и blonde и had nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came в very useful as she spent so much of her time craning over garden fences, spying on the neighbours. The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley и в their opinion there был no finer boy anywhere.

The Dursleys had everything они wanted, but они also had a secret, и their greatest fear был что somebody would discover это. Они didn’t think они could bear это if anyone found out about the Potters. Mrs Potter была Mrs Dursley’s sister, but они hadn’t met for several years; в fact, Mrs Dursley pretended she didn’t have a sister, because her sister и her good-for-nothing husband были as unDursleyish as это было possible to быть. The Dursleys shuddered to think что the neighbours would say if the Potters arrived в the street. The Dursleys knew что the Potters had a small son, too, but они had never even seen him. This boy был another good reason for keeping the Potters away; они didn’t want Dudley mixing with a child like that.

When Mr и Mrs Dursley woke up on the dull, grey Tuesday our story starts, there было nothing about the cloudy sky outside to suggest что strange и mysterious things would soon be happening all over the country. Mr Dursley hummed as он picked out his most boring tie for work и Mrs Dursley gossiped away happily as she wrestled a screaming Dudley в his high chair.

None of them noticed a large tawny owl flutter past the window.

At half past eight, Mr Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked Mrs Dursley on the cheek и tried to kiss Dudley goodbye but missed, because Dudley был now having a tantrum и throwing his cereal at the walls. ‘Little tyke,’ chortled Mr Dursley as он left the house. Он got в his car и backed out of number four’s drive.

Это было в the corner of the street что он noticed the first sign of something peculiar – a cat reading a map. For a second, Mr Dursley didn’t realise что он had seen – then он jerked his head around to look again. There была a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet Drive, but there wasn’t a map в sight. What could он have быть thinking of? Это must have было a trick of the light. Mr Dursley blinked и stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr Dursley drove around the corner и up the road, он watched the cat в his mirror. It было now reading the sign что said Privet Drive – no, looking at the sign; cats couldn’t read maps or signs. Mr Dursley gave himself a little shake и put the cat out of his mind. As он drove towards town он thought of nothing except a large order of drills он был hoping to get that day.